All right, so in this
particular video, let's understand
the asynchronous method
of talking between
the services, the communication
between the services.
So the most common thing, so let me
just delete this particular stuff.
Okay, so the most common thing that
we use to establish a communication
between the order service
is known as a queue system.
Okay, so what is a queue?
So if we talk about a queue, okay,
so that's that this a queue.
And let me just make it, solid.
A queue works on a FIFO principle.
FIFO is first in and first out.
Okay, first in, first out.
That means what you can do is you
can keep on enqueuing something
here that is in cube, that is
pushing something into the cube.
So let's say that this is a data that
you want to put it in the queue.
So let's say this is your data
one, data two, data three,
data four and data five.
And then from the other end you can
keep on dequeuing the stuff, okay?
DQ.
So DQ happens in the sequence
like 1, 2, 3, 4, 1, 2, 3, 4.
So this is your queue.
So what we can do in an microservice
asynchronous architecture
is we can introduce a queue.
So let's say what I'm going
to do is I'm going
to introduce a queue system.
So let's search for sqs.
This is a queue system by aws.
Okay, so these are just terms.
That's okay whenever you place
an order, okay, let's name this
queue as, you know, order queue.
Let's say this is an order
queue, okay?
Or maybe I'll just name
it as email queue.
Okay, Email queue.
So what you can do is basically you
can push something into the queue.
Okay?
Now when you push something
into the queue, pushing something
into the queue is instant.
You need not to wait for it.
Just push into the queue
and forget it.
Okay?
Just push into the queue
and forget it.
So you are basically just pushing
messages into the queue and you
don't have to worry if someone is on
the other side of the queue or not.
So you are basically enqueuing
the message into the queue, but
need not to worry that if there
is someone de queuing these
messages or not now what will
happen is this is known as in
queue, right?
So what you are doing here
is basically in queuing
the messages, okay?
Now this email service,
on their own pace can keep on
dequeuing these messages, okay?
So let me just change the color.
Let's say this one.
So they are basically DQ DQing
the message one by one and sending
the email and then processing it.
Now the benefit of this particular
architecture is that let's say
the email service is only capable
of sending five messages
per, let's say per second.
Okay, it can only send
five messages per second.
But the orders are actually placed
in a very vast majority.
You know, the people are placing
like hundreds of orders per second.
So what you can basically do is
you can just throw these messages
into the queue, just keep
on throwing, throwing, throwing,
throwing, throwing, and then.
But on the email service you
can actually pull the message
in a controlled manner.
Got.
Now that is the reason that when
you place an order, sometimes
you receive an email later.
Because what happens is if there are
hundred orders, so there are hundred
messages in the queue, that's
okay, they are lying in the queue.
But you can still, you, know,
dequeue the messages at the rate
of five messages per second.
So you pull five, now you are left
with 95, you pull another
five, now you are left with 90.
So what happens is this,
this also acts as a bottleneck
in the system so that
the email service is not down.
And email service can work
on its own pace.
Similarly, you can even
have more queues.
For example, there is
a payment queue, right?
So let's have a payment queue.
So whenever you want, whenever
the payment queue wants to, you
know, whenever the order wants
to request a payment, you can just
put it into the payment queue.
The payment queue can
poll the messages.
Basically dequeue the messages
at their own pace.
So whenever you talk about
a microservice architecture,
internal communication
of the microservices usually happens
through a queue system because
number one, it is more scalable.
It helps you to decouple.
Because what happens is, let's say
the email service is down, let's
make the email service as down.
So I'll just make it as red.
So what happens is still you can
put the message into the queue.
You don't have to worry if the email
service is up and running and it
is pulling for the messages.
So what will happen is the messages
will get, you know, the queue will
be getting filled, there will be
more messages into the queue.
But whenever, whenever the
developer comes back and he fixes
the email service and email
service is back up and running,
then you can again start pulling
the messages so you are not losing
onto the messages and it is more
decoupled approach.
So queues are commonly used between,
as a communication protocol,
between microservices.
In a microservice architecture.